Apps Documentation (#535)
akeneo/pim-api-docs: content/apps/create-app-in-php.md

# Create an App in PHP

In this tutorial, we will provide a guide, with examples in PHP, on how to implement the parts of your App 
required for the activation process based on OAuth 2.0 with Authorization Code.
At the end of this tutorial, your App will receive an Access Token and will be able to call the REST API of a PIM.

::: warning

> Examples in this tutorial are using PHP without any framework or library, and are consequently not following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples in this tutorial are using PHP without any framework or library and are consequently not following
```

all the recommended best practices. We are **strongly** encouraging you to adapt those examples with the framework or 
library of your choice.
:::

## Prerequisites

You must have valid [OAuth 2.0 client credentials](/apps/using-oauth2.html#credentials).

## Activation URL

First, your application must expose an activation URL.  

In our example, we won't do additional steps (like authentification), so we will launch the Authorization Request
immediately in this Activation URL.

Let's create an `activate.php` file:
```php

const OAUTH_CLIENT_ID = '<CLIENT_ID>';

> const OAUTH_SCOPES = '<SCOPES>'; // eg: read_products

Author: It's inside the `code`, so it will not be converted to a link.
Also, I expect them to have read the page before where we explain when to includes the scopes, or to check by themselves in the next page the scopes.

> const OAUTH_SCOPES = '<SCOPES>'; // eg: read_products

Author: I've removed the comment on the scopes.
We can iterate on it and add one later if needed.

session_start();

$pimUrl = $_GET['pim_url'];
if (empty($pimUrl)) {
    exit('Missing PIM URL in the query');
}

$scheme = $_SERVER['HTTP_X_FORWARDED_PROTO'] ?: $_SERVER['REQUEST_SCHEME'];
$host = $_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'];
$redirectUri = sprintf('%s://%s/callback.php', $scheme, $host);
// create a random state for preventing cross-site request forgery
$state = bin2hex(random_bytes(10));

// Store in the user session the state and the PIM URL
$_SESSION['oauth2_state'] = $state;
$_SESSION['pim_url'] = $pimUrl;

// Build the parameters for the Authorization Request
// https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.1.1
$authorizeUrlParams = http_build_query([
    'response_type' => 'code',
    'client_id' => OAUTH_CLIENT_ID,
    'redirect_uri' => $redirectUri,
    'scope' => OAUTH_SCOPES,
    'state' => $state,
]);

// Build the url for the Authorization Request using the PIM URL
$authorizeUrl = $pimUrl . '/connect/apps/v1/authorize?' . $authorizeUrlParams;

// Redirect the user to the Authorization URL
header('Location: ' . $authorizeUrl);
```

## Callback URL

Then, your application must expose a callback URL.

::: info

> The Code Challenge is documented [here](/apps/using-oauth2.html#whats-the-code-challenge).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Need more information? Please read the [What's the code challenge?](/apps/using-oauth2.html#whats-the-code-challenge) article.
```

Author: ```suggestion
In the following script, we are creating a code challenge. If you need more information about it, please read the [What's the code challenge?](/apps/using-oauth2.html#whats-the-code-challenge) article.
```
WDYT ?

:::

> Let's create an `callback.php` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a `callback.php` file:
```

$sessionState = $_SESSION['oauth2_state'] ?? '';
$state = $_GET['state'] ?? '';
if (empty($state) || $state !== $sessionState) {
    exit('Invalid state');
}

$authorizationCode = $_GET['code'] ?? '';
if (empty($authorizationCode)) {
    exit('Missing authorization code');
}

$pimUrl = $_SESSION['pim_url'] ?? '';
if (empty($pimUrl)) {
    exit('No PIM url in session');
}

$codeIdentifier = bin2hex(random_bytes(30));
$codeChallenge = hash('sha256', $codeIdentifier . OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET);

$accessTokenUrl = $pimUrl . '/connect/apps/v1/oauth2/token';
$accessTokenRequestPayload = [
    'client_id' => OAUTH_CLIENT_ID,
    'code_identifier' => $codeIdentifier,
    'code_challenge' => $codeChallenge,
    'code' => $authorizationCode,
    'grant_type' => 'authorization_code',
];

// Do a POST request on the token endpoint
$ch = curl_init();
curl_setopt($ch, CURLOPT_URL, $accessTokenUrl);
curl_setopt($ch, CURLOPT_POST, true);
curl_setopt($ch, CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS, $accessTokenRequestPayload);
curl_setopt($ch, CURLOPT_RETURNTRANSFER, true);
$response = json_decode(curl_exec($ch), true);

echo $response['access_token'];
```

> And that's all. At the end of this process, you have now received the following response with an `access_token`:

Reviewer 2: is there somewhere in the doc where you precise that the `access_token` has no TTL?

> And that's all. At the end of this process, you have now received the following response with an `access_token`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that's it!
At the end of this process, you receive the following response with an `access_token`:
```

That's it! => et voilà !

```json

{
  "access_token": "Y2YyYjM1ZjMyMmZlZmE5Yzg0OTNiYjRjZTJjNjk0ZTUxYTE0NWI5Zm",
  "token_type": "bearer"
}
```

> You can use this token to call the PIM REST API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this token to call the Akeneo PIM REST API.
```
